Liberal Learning To participate in a liberal education is a privilege
and a challenge; to be liberally educated is to be transformed. Open
and free inquiry, a devotion to excellence, the development of
character, the mastery of competencies, the ability to think
critically, the excitement and rewards of learning: these are the
aims and principles of a liberal arts education.  Liberal learning
liberates, freeing us from the restraints of time and place, enabling
us to grow, to change, and to respond to the new, the unforeseen, the
unexpected. To be liberally educated is to live imaginatively in
worlds not our own and to examine values not of our making.  A liberal
education tests our ability to investigate and understand the nature
of an organism, the applications of a theorem, the behavior of a
crowd, the principles of a political system, the meaning of a poem,
the causes of an event, the consequences of an argument, or the
composition of a symphony.  Liberal education promotes diversity,
skepticism, and debate.  It views the world as changing, not fixed. It
asks not only what, but why.  It insists that we make judgments rather
than have opinions, that we treat ideas seriously, not casually, that
we be committed instead of indifferent.  Liberal education is
vocational. It prepares us to assume positions of leadership and
responsibility as wage-earners and citizens. To be liberally educated
is not to be limited to a particular niche in the job market but to be
freed and qualified for many opportunities. And, most important of
all, it is to be equipped to assume new vocations and accept new
challenges throughout life.  Students come to Lawrence with many
career objectives and options: law, public service, health
professions, business, service vocations, engineering, teaching,
ministry. Liberal education is a prerequisite to all of these and
more.  Whether or not a student seeks professional or graduate
training beyond the bachelor degree, liberal learning provides the
skills, the talents, the critical intelligence, and the range that
offer access to many careers.  Above all, however, a liberal education
is a function of choice and self-discipline.  Lawrence provides
opportunities; it does not prescribe decisions.  The privilege of
liberal learning is the freedom to choose; the challenge of liberal
learning is to choose responsibly.